### Technologies
* Python
* Apache Spark
* AWS S3
  
### Project Overview

- A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database even more and want to move their data warehouse to a data lake. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.


### Project Description

- In this project, I build an ETL pipeline for a data lake hosted on S3. To complete the project, I need to load data from S3, process the data into analytics tables using Spark, and load them back into S3. I deploy this Spark process on a cluster using AWS.

### Datasets

1. Song Dataset:

    - The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

        - song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
        - song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json

2. Log Dataset:

    - The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.The log files in the dataset I work with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

    - log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
    - log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json

### Files

- etl.py: reads data from S3, processes that data using Spark, and writes them back to S3
- dl.cfg: contains your AWS credentials
- test.ipynb: read tables from input s3 , create s3 output and test the objects of the s3 output (fact and dimension tables)

### Schema

- Fact Table

    1. songplays: records in event data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong (songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent)

- Dimension Tables

    2. users: users in the app (user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level)

    3. songs: songs in music database (song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration)

    4. artists: artists in music database(artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude)

    5. time: timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units(start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday)


### How to Configure and Run Scripts

1. Create IAM user.
2. From IAM user account write AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID and AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY in dl.cfg
3. Create output s3 pucket which 'abdullahoutput' in our case.
4. In ETL file, load the Keys from dl.cfg, then load the data. 
5. Generate fact and dimension tables using spark.
6. Load the fact and dimension tables back to S3 output.
7. Run the command python etl.py in terminal to execute the previous steps.
8. Test the tables with s3 output in test.ipynb
